JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
Fallout from Donald
Trump Jr.'s meeting with
a Russian government
lawyer rocks the White House
-- a look at whether there
were legal violations involved,
and the effects of it all
on the administration.
Then:
CHRISTOPHER WRAY, FBI Director
Nominee: My loyalty is to
the Constitution, to the rule
of law, and to the
mission of the FBI.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President
Trump's pick to head the
FBI, Christopher Wray,
faces Senate questioning,
much of it around the firing
of former Director James Comey.
And a massive piece of
Antarctica finally breaks
off, releasing one of
the largest icebergs
in recorded history, and
dramatically changing the
landscape of the peninsula.
And we continue our series
Inside Putin's Russia with a
trip to the country's southern
border, where ISIS
propaganda has taken hold.
NICK SCHIFRIN: There's
been a local insurgency
here in the capital of
Dagestan, Makhachkala,
for years, targeting both
local authorities and symbols
of the national government.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's "PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump
is heading back to Europe
tonight, this time to France,
for its independence, or
Bastille Day, celebrations.
But he leaves behind a swirl
over his son's efforts to get
damaging information about
Hillary Clinton, provided
by the Russian government.
John Yang begins our coverage.
JOHN YANG: Across Capitol Hill,
the big question was what the
bombshell revelations in Donald
Trump Jr.'s e-mails do to
the Russia investigation.
At his weekly news conference,
House Speaker Paul Ryan did
his best to avoid commenting
directly.
REP.
PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker of the
House: We have a special counsel
that's doing an investigation
over at the Justice Department.
We have an investigation
here in the House.
in the Senate.
I think it's very important
that these professionals
in these committees
do their jobs, so that
we can get to the
bottom of all this.
QUESTION: Mike Conaway, the
Texas Republican leading the
House investigation, didn't say
much either.
Do you have any concerns about
what you're seeing now, the
press reports about these
meetings that he took
with the Russian lawyer?
REP.
MIKE CONAWAY (R), Texas: Yes,
we're going to pursue every
lead that needs to pursue
and every clue that
needs to be pursued.
QUESTION: Does this
lead need to be pursued?
REP.
MIKE CONAWAY: We're going
to pursue every lead that
makes sense to pursue.
JOHN YANG: In an interview to
be broadcast tomorrow on CBN,
President Trump said Russian
President Vladimir Putin
wouldn't have wanted to
help him in the first place.
DONALD TRUMP, President of
the United States: If Hillary
had won, our military would be
decimated.
Our energy would be
much more expensive.
That's what Putin doesn't
like about me, and that's why
I say, why would he want me?
JOHN YANG: Last night,
Donald Trump Jr. offered
his first public defense
to FOX News Channel's
Sean Hannity.
DONALD TRUMP JR., Son of
Donald Trump: In retrospect, I
probably would have done things
a little differently.
Again, this was
before Russia mania.
This was before they were
building it up in the press.
For me, this was
opposition research.
JOHN YANG: This morning,
Mr. Trump gave his eldest
son a rave review: "He
was open, transparent
and innocent.
This is the greatest witch-hunt
in political history."
At his confirmation hearing to
be FBI director, Christopher
Wray was pressed on that point.
He had a different view of
the investigations, including
special counsel Robert Mueller's
probe, than the man
who nominated him.
SEN.
LINDSEY GRAHAM (R), South
Carolina: I'm asking
you, as the future FBI
director, do you consider
this endeavor a witch-hunt?
CHRISTOPHER WRAY, FBI Director
Nominee: I do not consider
Director Mueller to be on
a witch-hunt.
JOHN YANG: Meanwhile, the
president's legal team tried to
distance their client from his
namesake.
JAY SEKULOW, Attorney For Donald
Trump: The president wasn't
aware of the meeting, didn't
participate in the meeting,
didn't attend the meeting and
was only made aware of the
e-mails -- actually, reading
the e-mails, seeing the
e-mails, was yesterday when they
were released.
JOHN YANG: For Mr. Trump, the
Russia story has become a burden
he cannot escape, no matter
how hard he tries.
Every time he appears to be
moving in a different direction,
another disclosure puts it right
back front and center.
Today, Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov
seemed to sympathize.
SERGEI LAVROV, Russian Foreign
Minister (through translator):
Today, I turned on the TV again,
and all the Western channels
are discussing only this.
It is amazing how serious
people can make a mountain
when there might not even be a
molehill.
JOHN YANG: There's sure to be
more discussion next week, when
the Senate Judiciary Committee
wants former Trump campaign
chairman Paul Manafort to
testify about his role.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm John Yang.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Later, the
president told Reuters
that he only learned
of Donald Trump Jr.'s
meeting with a Russian
lawyer a few days ago.
But he said -- quote --
"I think many people would
have held that meeting."
He also said that he
asked Russian President
Putin last week if he
had meddled in the U.S.
election, and Putin that
said twice absolutely not.
We will explore the legal
implications of all this
after the news summary.
In the day's other news: Federal
Reserve Board Chair Janet
Yellen affirmed that short-term
interest rates are likely to
rise again in the coming months.
But she also left the door
open to changing those plans.
Yellen told a congressional
hearing that a recent slowdown
in inflation might make the
Central Bank recalculate.
JANET YELLEN, Federal Reserve
Chair: Monetary policy is
not on a preset course.
We're watching this
very closely, and stand
ready to adjust our
policy if it appears that
the inflation undershoot
will be persistent.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Separately,
Yellen said the Fed could begin
to unload its massive bond
holdings this year.
It bought government bonds
during and after the recession
in order to lower long-term
interest rates and to
boost economic activity.
Wall Street took heart
from Yellen's talk of
going slow on rate hikes.
The Dow Jones industrial
average gained 123
points to close at 21532.
That's a new record.
The Nasdaq rose nearly
68 points, and the
S&P 500 added 17.
One of Brazil's former
presidents, Luiz Inacio
Lula da Silva, was convicted
today in a sweeping
corruption probe.
A judge sentenced him
to 9.5 years in prison,
but for now he remains
free, pending his appeal.
Silva served as president from
2003 to 2010, and is still
widely admired in Brazil.
In Saudi Arabia today, U.S.
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson
held talks, but made no apparent
progress in ending a
boycott of another Persian
Gulf nation, Qatar.
Tillerson met with King Salman,
and later the Saudi crown
prince, in the city of Jiddah.
Later, he flew to Kuwait, and
returns to Qatar tomorrow.
The Saudis and other Arab
states have accused Qatar
of financing terrorism.
In Turkey, President Recep
Tayyip Erdogan has rejected
any talk of lifting a state of
emergency.
He imposed it last July
after rogue soldiers
tried to overthrow the
government, killing
more than 240 people.
Erdogan visited graves of the
victims yesterday, and he told
international investors meeting
in Ankara today that disloyal
elements are still at large.
RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN, Turkish
President (through translator):
What are we supposed to do with
all this happening?
They say lift the
state of emergency.
This won't happen.
I had an interview
with an international
media organization.
They asked if the state
of emergency will finish.
It will finish when this
business is completely
out of the way.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Erdogan's
opponents say that he has used
emergency rule to quash dissent.
There is word that Chinese
political dissident and Nobel
peace laureate Liu Xiaobo is now
in critical condition.
A hospital in Shenyang,
reported today he is suffering
multiple organ failure.
Liu has late-stage liver cancer.
He was released from prison on
medical leave just last month.
Back in this country, the Royal
Bank of Scotland has agreed on a
settlement with U.S. regulators,
and will pay $5.5 billion.
It involves claims that the
bank sold billions of dollars of
toxic mortgage-backed securities
before the 2008
financial meltdown.
And President Trump lost
his nominee today to
lead the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation.
James Clinger cited
family-related obligations
that had prompted him
to leave government
service earlier this year.
He said that they have grown
more challenging in the interim.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the legal questions surrounding
Donald Trump Jr.'s meeting
with a Russian lawyer; President
Trump's pick for FBI director
faces the Senate; an iceberg
the size of Delaware breaks off
from Antarctica; and much more.
Now back to the controversies
swirling around Donald Trump Jr.
and the president's top campaign
aides.
The e-mail exchange published
by Donald Trump Jr. on Tuesday
reignited a legal debate about
whether members of the
Trump campaign engaged
in unlawful activity.
We get two perspectives
now, from Bob Bauer.
He served as White House
counsel to President
Obama from 2009 to 2011.
He is now a lawyer in private
practice in Washington.
And Jed Shugerman, He's
a professor at Fordham
University Law School.
Gentlemen, we thank you
both for being with us.
Bob Bauer, to you first.
We know the president's son was
told that the Russian government
had incriminating information
on Hillary Clinton that it
wanted to share with him.
Did he break a law
by pursuing that?
BOB BAUER, Former White
House Counsel: In my view,
we have some evidence.
We don't have all the evidence.
I would suspect the
congressional investigating
committee and the special
counsel will continue
to dig into questions raised
by the facts disclosed by The
New York Times and by Donald
Trump Jr. himself.
But this is highly suggestive
of a potential violation
of the law on two counts.
Number one, it demonstrates
that the campaign as a whole
had the intent to court support,
receive support, solicit
support from a foreign national
source, in this case, the Russia
government.
Second, in my view, the
meeting itself could constitute
illegal solicitation of support
from a foreign national
under campaign finance law.
So, it both has broad legal
significance, and on that one
specific issue of liability,
has a more concrete
significance.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, you're
tying it to campaign
finance, is that right?
BOB BAUER: Yes.
I'm talking here about a statute
that has been on the books
for many years that Congress
tightened in 2002 that prohibits
receiving and soliciting
contributions from a foreign
national or providing
the foreign national with
substantial assistance
in trying to influence
a U.S. election.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Jed Shugerman,
listening to this, and I
know you have been looking at
the laws with regard to this
today, does this sound like
something that fits under that
legal definition?
JED SHUGERMAN, Fordham
University Law School:
Yes, I have been looking
at this quite a bit
and I have been
reading Bob's work.
And Bob is -- generally, he's
a terrific expert on this.
I think I disagree with
him and how far to apply
campaign finance law.
I'm very sympathetic to
his perspective here.
However, I think we're
getting into some dangerous
territory with applying
federal election law
too broadly at this stage.
News keeps breaking every day,
so I'm just saying, what we
know now, to argue that this
meeting itself is a violation
of the campaign finance law
raises a couple of questions.
First of all, it raises
the danger of applying
and criminalizing
contacts between anyone
in a campaign with
a foreign national.
Let me give you a hypothetical.
Imagine if there was a Web site
that published what purported
to be the birth certificate
of President Obama from Kenya,
and an Obama staffer went
and met with Kenyan nationals
to find out about the
veracity of that document.
Under this interpretation,
that would still be a thing of
value, but would we criminalize
the Obama campaign for checking?
And, similarly, would we say
of the Romney campaign, you
can't do opposition research
by investigating?
(CROSSTALK)
JED SHUGERMAN: Yes, go ahead.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I was just
going to say, let me just
stop you there on that point.
What about that, Bob Bauer,
that there's a danger here
in making this cover any kind
of information that is
shared with a campaign
by a foreign entity?
BOB BAUER: Well, that's
not the case at all here.
We're not talking about a
casual conversation with some
information that the campaign is
looking for it sort
of acquires by talking
to a foreign national.
We're talking about an
operational link between
a foreign government
and a campaign, one in
which the foreign government is
stating its intention to provide
ongoing support, dispatches
one of its emissaries, if we're
to understand the facts as
so far presented in the news,
dispatches one of its emissaries
from Moscow to Washington, D.C.
And on top of all that, not
only does the campaign indicate
that it's anxious for the
help, but, as you recall,
Donald Trump Jr. even suggests
in one of his e-mails that he
would like to discuss timing,
that if the information is as
good as advertised, he would
like to see it released
later in the summer.
The campaign finance
laws clearly distinguish
between the kind of
speech that I think that
Professor Shugerman is
legitimately concerned
about from this kind of
operational relationship
by a strong supporter
for a campaign engaged
in very specific
activities on its behalf.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Jed Shugerman,
it is the case that the e-mail
to Donald Trump Jr. said the
Russian government wants
to help your campaign.
JED SHUGERMAN: All of this is
indicative or suggestive of
what we might find out later.
I think if we carefully read
the e-mails, I think it's hard
to make the leap that this
is like a coordination.
There's indications there.
I understand where Bob
Bauer is coming from.
So, I think we have to be
careful, though, because if you
read the e-mail from a little
bit of perspective of how could
this be applied in the future
and can we have line-drawing
here, it's hard to see where
this e-mail doesn't lead to some
effect of applying this to any
kind of contact
between a government...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let me
now ask both of you.
And I will come to you,
Jed Shugerman first.
The word collusion, colluding
has been thrown around a lot in
the last few weeks about whether
the Trump campaign was colluding
with Russian officials.
Is there some legal
connection there?
Is that an issue?
JED SHUGERMAN: Well,
the word collusion is
more of a political
word than a legal word.
There is no statute
against collusion.
And -- but I think the
word we might turn to in
the law is conspiracy.
This is where we're headed.
I think there is a lot of other
information that is coming
out day by day that points
to this conspiracy.
And we may have conspiracy.
I think what we're getting
closer towards is a violation
of 1986 law of computer hacking,
because I think, if you look
at the timing, there are just
too many coincidences about
what the Trump campaign was
doing before and after this June
3 e-mail about President Trump
himself.
I just -- my point here is,
I think we need to be careful
in analyzing each step.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
JED SHUGERMAN: I think there is
evidence that's pointing towards
crimes, but I think we need
to be careful when we
make interpretations
of these statutes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well,
we certainly want
to be careful here.
And we know we're speculating,
but we do think it's important
to ask these questions.
Bob Bauer, just quickly on
the conspiracy question?
BOB BAUER: Well, I think
there is a basis here.
And I don't disagree
with Professor Shugerman.
This is going to be an
ongoing investigation.
This is not the only evidence
that will be taken into account.
And certainly, if, in fact,
there is apparently a violation
of the campaign finance laws,
and the evidence is beginning
to point in that direction,
then, yes, the prosecutors
could certainly develop a
conspiracy charge or an aiding
and abetting charge based on
that.
If I could just add one more
point, this is not a statute
that is subject to the same
free speech considerations that
Professor Shugerman outlines
that apply in the domestic
U.S. context.
Today, for example, it was
very clear from the testimony
of FBI director nominee Chris
Wray, who was asked about this,
that, in his view, this sort
of communication between the
Russian government
and a campaign is a
national security matter.
And he said any meeting
like that shouldn't have
been taken unless the
campaign had consulted
with what he called
its legal advisers.
So, I think it was clear
from the FBI director's
remarks here this is a
national security issue,
the free speech considerations
are different, and the
implications are legal.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right,
gentlemen, we are going
to have to leave it there.
Bob Bauer, Jed Shugerman,
we thank you both.
BOB BAUER: Thanks for having us.
JED SHUGERMAN:
Thank you very much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: As we noted
earlier, the issue of Russian
meddling figured into the Senate
confirmation hearing today for
Christopher Wray, the nominee
to be the next FBI director.
But it was not the
only topic of note.
Senators were also trying to
get a sense for whether Wray
was the right person to lead
the bureau through the
political crosswinds of the day.
Lisa Desjardins
takes it from there.
LISA DESJARDINS: He's worked 25
years as both as a top federal
a prosecutor and as defense
attorney.
SEN.
CHARLES GRASSLEY (R), Iowa: Do
you affirm that the testimony
you're about to give before
the committee will be the truth,
the whole truth and nothing
but the truth, so help you,
God?
CHRISTOPHER WRAY, FBI
Director Nominee: I do.
LISA DESJARDINS: But Christopher
Wray faced few questions about
his experience, and instead
a long list of them about
his independence as a
potential FBI chief.
SEN.
PATRICK LEAHY (D), Vermont: If
the president asked you to do
something unlawful or unethical,
what do you say?
CHRISTOPHER WRAY: First, I
would try to talk him out of it.
And if that failed,
I would resign.
LISA DESJARDINS: It was one of
many references to the last FBI
director, James Comey, fired
by President Trump.
Comey claimed the president
asked him to let go of
investigating former
aide Michael Flynn,
and demanded a loyalty oath.
The White House
disputes all of that.
But Wray, as the FBI nominee,
was asked about his allegiance.
CHRISTOPHER WRAY: My loyalty is
to the Constitution, to the rule
of law, and to the mission of
the FBI.
And no one asked me for any
kind of loyalty oath at any
point during this process, and
I sure as heck didn't offer one.
LISA DESJARDINS: And
about his conviction.
CHRISTOPHER WRAY: I believe
to my core that there's only
one right way to do this job,
and that is with
strict independence,
by the book, playing it
straight, faithful to the
Constitution.
LISA DESJARDINS: Wray spoke
about his 2004 pledge to leave
the Justice Department over
the Bush administration's use
of warrantless wiretaps, which
he believed were illegal.
He was following the lead of
Comey, then the deputy attorney
general, and Robert Mueller,
then the FBI director, and
now the man in charge of the
special Russia investigation.
CHRISTOPHER WRAY: I view him as
the consummate straight-shooter,
and somebody I have enormous
respect for.
And I would be pleased to
do what I can to support
him in his mission.
LISA DESJARDINS: Wray also
worked on counterterrorism
at the Justice Department,
and was asked today
about torture.
CHRISTOPHER WRAY: My view
is that torture is wrong.
It's unacceptable, it's illegal,
and I think it's ineffective.
LISA DESJARDINS: And
about protecting Muslim
Americans from backlash.
CHRISTOPHER WRAY: I think
the FBI director and the FBI
needs to be -- the FBI and the
FBI director for all Americans,
including Muslim Americans.
And my experience in terrorism
investigations has been that
some of the best leads we ever
got were from members
of that community.
LISA DESJARDINS: He stressed
the need to fight terrorism,
including cyber-terrorism, and
protect classified information.
In the end, senators of
both parties seemed assured.
SEN.
AL FRANKEN (D), Minnesota:
Looking around, I'm feeling
that you have had a good hearing
today.
And best of luck to you, sir.
CHRISTOPHER WRAY:
Thank you, Senator.
That means a lot.
LISA DESJARDINS: If approved,
Wray would be the eighth FBI
director confirmed by the U.S.
Senate.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Lisa Desjardins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
why so many Russians from
that country's southern
region are joining
ISIS; a view from both sides
of the political aisle on the
Russia controversy plaguing the
Trump administration; and from
dirt to shirt, bringing the
business of cotton back to the
U.S.
But first: Researchers have
been watching for months,
waiting for a huge iceberg to
break away from an ice
shelf in Antarctica.
That break was confirmed today.
And just to give you a sense
of the size, the volume of the
iceberg is said to be twice
as large as Lake Erie.
Miles O'Brien has been watching
all this and digging into the
larger questions about the
ice shelf.
Here's an update to
an earlier report.
It's part of our weekly segment
on the Leading Edge of science.
MILES O'BRIEN: This fast-growing
rift in the Antarctica ice
just created one of the largest
icebergs ever recorded,
about the size of Delaware,
weighing more than one trillion
tons.
The event had been
anticipated for months.
Finally, some time between
Monday and today, the Larsen
Sea Ice Shelf became 12 percent
smaller.
So, we have known about this
for quite a while, right?
KELLY BRUNT, University
of Maryland: We have
certainly known about
the bulk of this rift
for a while.
MILES O'BRIEN: Kelly Brunt is a
glaciologist at the University
of Maryland and NASA's Goddard
Space Flight Center.
She used a wall of monitors
there to show me the growing
rift, fueled in part by rising
air and sea temperatures.
If the glaciers in West
Antarctica all dropped
into the water, global
sea level would rise
by more than 15 feet.
Brunt showed me the big
picture, a composite of images
from several satellites.
This is how the
glacier ice flows here.
KELLY BRUNT: Ice flows from
the center of the continent
out to the edges, much like
syrup on the center of
your pancake flowing
towards the edges.
And you can see there are
areas where it's moving pretty
slowly, and then there are areas
where it's moving very quickly.
And those quick places
are generally in our
areas of ice shelves.
MILES O'BRIEN: So, when we
think about ice, we think
about something static.
It's not static, is it?
KELLY BRUNT: Not at all.
Actually, it's highly dynamic.
You can see from this
image it looks to me a
lot like a river system.
MILES O'BRIEN: Ice shelves
are connected to the glaciers
that sit on land, but they are
also floating, like ice
cubes in a glass of water.
KELLY BRUNT: If you had a drink
with ice cubes in it, as those
ice cube melts, they don't
add to the height of
the water in the glass.
So when ice shelves break down
and collapse, they do not have
a direct impact on mean sea
level rise.
However, they have
an indirect effect.
These ice shelves buttress
the flow of the ice upstream,
the ice that's flowing into
the system.
And when you lose that
buttressing force,
you allow the upstream
glaciers to flow faster.
So that's similar to putting
more ice cubes into the
glass and letting those melt.
MILES O'BRIEN: Ice falls off the
edge of glaciers all the time.
It is part of a natural
process called calving.
Kelly Brunt says it is important
to judge the size of the
piece that breaks off relative
to the size of the
glacier that is behind it.
She says your fingernails
offer a handy model.
KELLY BRUNT: If you break
your fingernail inside the
white part of your fingernail,
you probably don't
think much of it.
If you break it below the
white part, you put a Band-Aid
on it, you think about it and
you keep an eye on it.
If you lose your whole
fingernail, I don't
know what happens.
It's pretty catastrophic.
This represents losing
the whole fingernail.
MILES O'BRIEN: Like so many
features in Antarctica,
the Larsen Ice Shelf
is named for a famous
19th century explorer.
And it is disappearing,
section by section,
identified by letters.
Larsen A disintegrated in 1995.
And, in 2002, a series
of satellite images
captured the end of Larsen
B in dramatic fashion
over the course of six weeks.
The piece that broke off was
the size of Rhode Island.
KELLY BRUNT: Losing this much
ice, losing ice that represents
roughly the state of Rhode
Island in a month-and-a-half,
just far exceeded
anybody's expectations
of what could happen
in the time scale
that it could happen.
MILES O'BRIEN: So, it was kind
of like, we have to rethink
things here a little bit.
I mean, this is a wakeup call.
KELLY BRUNT: This was
absolutely a wakeup call.
MILES O'BRIEN: Scientists track
the ice using a half-dozen
U.S. and European satellites,
including Landsat, which
gathered these images.
But some of their best data came
from a satellite called ICESat.
Launched in 2003, it
ceased operation in 2009.
It precisely measured the
glaciers using laser beams.
KELLY BRUNT: This is quite
a few years of ICESat data
merged together to get a sense
in meters per year how
our ice sheet is changing.
And you can see, the big picture
here is that our ice sheets
are changing where they are
in contact with both our warming
atmosphere and a warming ocean.
So, it's basically along
the fringe of the continent.
MILES O'BRIEN: When ICESat
failed, NASA started
tracking the ice using
radar and lasers on
board low-flying aircraft.
The IceBridge program is NASA's
largest air campaign ever,
but it still could not match
the eye above the sky.
It goes without saying that you
would view these satellites,
the capability to look at
this, as essential?
KELLY BRUNT: What we're talking
about is a calving of an iceberg
that's a size of a state.
To get that, you really need
a satellite to be able to
see all of it in one shot.
It's a function of scale and
repeatability to go back and
look at that area again with
the satellite that makes these
the perfect tools for looking
at the large-scale change
that we're seeing
in this region.
MILES O'BRIEN: And that's
precisely what Kelly
Brunt and her colleagues
will be doing now,
using satellite data, data
from the scant weather stations
that are on the surface there,
and additionally with buoys
which are in the water itself.
They will be poring over this
data over the course of actually
years to try to make some
sort of definitive statement
-- and I put definitive in
quotes because it's science,
after all -- as to whether
this particular calving event
is linked to climate change
- - Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, is
there a definitive answer
to that at this point?
It sounds like you're saying no.
MILES O'BRIEN: Not just yet.
Here's what we know.
Larsen B, the previous big
calving event, scientists say
there is a very strong pile
of evidence indicating it
is linked to climate change.
Larsen A, they have
practically no data at all.
So, it's one of these things
that, as Kelly Brunt put it,
this is where it gets exciting
for scientists.
They will try to determine
if it's climate change that
actually caused this to happen,
and also they will be
looking at the stability
of the ice shelf behind it.
Does the flow increase?
What about the glacier
behind the ice shelf itself?
Looking at all that will give
them a lot of clues about what
this is going to mean ultimately
for sea level rise.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And speaking of
that, do they know the effect
this is going to have on sea
levels in the area
and around the world?
MILES O'BRIEN: Yes,
that's the big question.
Larsen C, even though
it's called a shelf,
it's kind of misleading.
It was already in the water.
And so like an ice cube in a
glass of water, it had already
done its bit of displacement
and already had made its
impact on sea level rise.
If it had fallen off, scientists
estimate it would have
increased sea level across the
world by three millimeters.
That the gives you the
idea of the size of this.
So, now the situation here is
to see whether the increased
rate, if there's an increased
rate in the flow of that ice
shelf into the water, what
impact that might have on sea
level rise in coming years.
But, again, Judy, this is
long-term science, and we will
just have to watch it for years
to come.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, finally,
Miles, what happens
to this gigantic piece
of ice now that it's
broken off?
MILES O'BRIEN: Well, it
will probably not stay
intact the size of Delaware.
It will break up over time.
Fortunately, where it is,
it's not going to be in the
way of any shipping channels.
So it shouldn't be a hazard
to navigation, but that's a
big part of what is going to
happen along with
the other research.
They will be tracking to see
how this iceberg breaks up.
But it will be a big
iceberg to start, and over
time it will get smaller.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right,
our iceberg man, Miles
O'Brien, thank you very much.
MILES O'BRIEN:
You're welcome, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now we
continue our series
Inside Putin's Russia, and
travel to the country's
southernmost border.
The Republic of Dagestan
is in the North Caucasus,
near the Caspian Sea.
Over the past two decades, a
brutal separatist insurgency has
fought the Russian state, and
violence has spilled over
from neighboring Chechnya,
where Russia fought two wars.
Many Americans may recall
Dagestan as the original home
of the Boston Marathon bombers,
but now a new problem.
By one estimate, as
many as 5,000 Dagestanis
are fighting for ISIS.
Again, in partnership with
the Pulitzer Center on Crisis
Reporting, special correspondent
Nick Schifrin and producer
Zach Fannin examine why.
KAZIM NURMAGOMETOV, Russia: It
is no accident that the youth
are tempted to go to Syria,
because, today, there
is a revival of Islam.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Kazim
Nurmagometov is 62 years old,
and his son fought for ISIS.
He was never tempted to go to
Syria, but he and his wife,
Rashida, understand why their
son, Marat, was.
KAZIM NURMAGOMETOV (through
translator): The Islamic call
I was talking about, the one
in every Muslim's soul,
is hidden deep down.
It's like a light
in someone's heart.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Nurmagometov
lives deep in the Caucasus
Mountains, where nearly dried-up
rivers meander through
1,000-foot-high cliffs,
and beyond ancient rock
formations, isolated
dirt roads connect
secluded villages.
One of those villages is Karata.
Official population is
4,000, but residents
say it's half that size.
This area is nearly
100 percent Muslim.
Before Friday prayers,
men greet each other in
the small town center.
There are few young people, in
part because this small village
sent as many as two dozen
to ISIS, al-Qaida, and the
wars in Syria and Iraq.
That's her?
That's your daughter.
AMINA KONDAKOVA, Russia
(through translator): Yes.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Amina
Kondakova is a Muslim convert.
She shows me photos
from a happier time.
That's very cute.
She says they grew up
traditional and comfortable.
And then, two years ago, her
daughter Miryam and her son
Ali Askhat told her they were
going on vacation.
Instead, they traveled
with Miriam's husband to
Mosul, Iraq, to join ISIS.
AMINA KONDAKOVA (through
translator): They lied
to me about going there.
I was so disappointed.
And then I became afraid about
what could happen to them.
NICK SCHIFRIN: She says
this town is pious,
but wasn't religious
enough for her daughter.
Did she feel judged by
people in this society?
AMINA KONDAKOVA (through
translator): Yes,
they gave her looks.
They didn't like how
she was dressing.
They wanted her to dress
like everyone else.
She wanted to dress to
way it's written for a
Muslim woman to dress.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Kondakova
believes that judgment
drove her daughter away.
She reluctantly admits that,
in Mosul, her daughter is happy
raising her first grandson.
AMINA KONDAKOVA (through
translator): "Mom, I feel
like I was reborn here.
I regret all those years
I spent in Dagestan.
Don't you want to come here too?
I want to live with you, want
you to see my boy growing up."
NICK SCHIFRIN: Nurmagometov
gets to see his grandson.
When his son Marat left
for Syria, he abandoned
a pregnant wife.
Alexey is now 3 years old.
They look at photos of Marat
as a boy, and a young Marat
clowning around with his older
brother, Shamil.
When you look at these, does
it make you wish that your
sons could all be here with you
together?
KAZIM NURMAGOMETOV (through
translator): I am a realist.
I know there's no return.
Life isn't a book where you
can tear out the pages if you
didn't like what you wrote, and
write new ones.
NICK SCHIFRIN: The Dagestanis
who fought for ISIS continue
a decades-old legacy here of
radicalism and militancy.
There's been a local insurgency
here in the capital of Dagestan,
Makhachkala, for years,
targeting both local
authorities and symbols of
the national government.
Their most prominent
attacks targeted civilians
in larger cities.
In Moscow in 2010, militants
allied with al-Qaida
blew up the subway.
In 2013 in Volgograd, they blew
up a bus station, and then a
commuter bus, as seen on Russian
media.
HABIB MAGOMEDOV, Former Police
Lieutenant Colonel (through
translator): There was no
social or physical protection.
Every day, there were
bombings, terror attacks
that cost people's lives.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Habib Magomedov
is a former police lieutenant
colonel and member of Dagestan's
anti-terrorism committee.
He says conservative Islam,
combined with high rates of
unemployment and poverty, to
radicalize.
HABIB MAGOMEDOV (through
translator): It's the
living conditions,
absence of possibilities,
absence of social mobility,
which creates waves
of anger and distress.
There has to be some sort of
history that sets the person
on a certain track, where
you only need to light a
match for the fire to start.
NICK SCHIFRIN: That
match is often a brutal
security crackdown.
In January 2013, Russian
special forces flooded
into Dagestani villages.
Locals say security
services have practiced
collective punishment
against entire families,
torture, even
extrajudicial executions.
Magomedov admits they went
too far, but he tries to
explain their motivation.
HABIB MAGOMEDOV (through
translator): If keeping
people safe requires
limiting rights and freedoms
of certain individuals,
it's probably worth it.
My brother died in 1998
when someone threw a
grenade in his house.
You know, the freedom of
one man ends where the
freedom of another starts.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Today, the
violence has diminished.
But it's still religious
Muslims whose freedoms
are most often restricted.
This mosque practices an austere
and aggressive form of Islam.
It also rails against
government policy, and that
makes it a police target.
After prayers, police
set up a checkpoint.
Officers must meet a
monthly quota of arrests,
leading to what many call
indiscriminate detentions,
including of journalists trying
to tell the mosque's story.
We were filming that scene
from across the street, just
standing on the sidewalk for
only about 90 seconds, when
police came up and arrested us.
They threw us into their car.
They drove us to the precinct.
They refused to tell us
why they were arresting us.
Why is he being arrested?
And when we were in the station,
we saw dozens of men who had
been in that mosque before
also arrested.
That is simply how
people here act.
Thirty-three-year-old
Mogamet Mogametov is
the mosque's spokesman.
MOGAMET MOGAMETOV, Mosque
Spokesman (through translator):
As you saw yourself, they arrest
people not because they're
suspicious, but only because
they came to a mosque.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Do you think
that the tactics that the police
use can help to radicalize
young people here?
MOGAMET MOGAMETOV (through
translator): Of course.
This is the thing
that provokes people.
Since literally everyone can
be arrested, not on the basis
of actual cause, but something
totally subjective, then
of course that irritates.
NICK SCHIFRIN: And that
helped lead so many to ISIS.
The group exploits the abuse.
Russian language propaganda says
Russia oppresses Muslims, and
presents Syria and Iraq as a
pious paradise fit for families.
And as ISIS recruited
Dagestanis, Russian
security services showed
some the door, exporting
extremism by facilitating
their travel to Syria.
HABIB MAGOMEDOV (through
translator): It was
the right thing to do.
Since the moment these people
left Dagestan for Syria, local
terrorism dropped dramatically.
If they had stayed, there
would have been terror attacks.
There would have been
human casualties.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Who
helped you leave?
Who facilitated your departure?
One of those who was pushed
is this 27-year-old Dagestani
who now lives in Turkey.
We agreed to hide his
face and alter his voice.
MAN (through translator):
People who were on the federal
wanted list could somehow get
a passport and
leave the country.
Some security officers said to
them, we will either kill you
or you can leave the country.
The way I was helped was that
every time I went to my local
government office, I was
taken by the police
and interrogated.
But when I went to get a
passport, nobody stopped me.
NICK SCHIFRIN: And after the
Dagestanis left, Russia made
sure they never came back.
MAN (through translator): They
simply said that, if I come
back, they will do bad things
to me.
So I won't ever go back.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Many Dagestanis
who fought for ISIS have died
in Syria, and they're celebrated
by ISIS propaganda.
But some managed to
escape, often to the port
city of Odessa, Ukraine.
Former ISIS fighter Marat
agreed to talk to us if
we didn't show his face.
MARAT, Former ISIS Fighter
(through translator):
The majority went to
Syria with the notion
of jihad, that Assad was
repressing Muslims and
we needed to help them.
NICK SCHIFRIN: We have
actually already met Marat.
He's the son of
Kazim Nurmagometov.
Kazim is often in
Odessa to visit.
KAZIM NURMAGOMETOV
(through translator): We
consider our family lucky.
He is back, alive and healthy,
and realized that where he
ended up wasn't what he thought
it was.
NICK SCHIFRIN: When his son
left for Syria, Kazim didn't
sit back and let him die.
He traveled to the outskirts of
Aleppo and saw the destruction.
He helped convince
Marat he made a mistake.
Marat finally left when he
thought about his own son.
MARAT (through translator):
I was thinking about him
constantly, hoping that I could
leave and see my child.
I was always thinking about
what a big mistake I made.
Thank God I was able to leave
there alive, because practically
everyone I knew there,
no one is left alive.
They all died there.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Marat will
never return here, to Dagestan.
And that's what has
inspired Kazim to speak on
camera for the first time.
KAZIM NURMAGOMETOV (through
translator): There are thousands
of ISIS fighters in Syria who
want to leave.
I feel it.
Maybe my story will be
a lesson, how to do it,
what obstacles to expect.
I feel some sort of
responsibility to
use my experience to
help get others out.
NICK SCHIFRIN: People like
Kazim's neighbor, Amina.
She fears her daughter is dead.
She hasn't heard from
her in four months.
What would you say to that
mother in America who's
listening to your story?
AMINA KONDAKOVA (through
translator): Don't let
your children go anywhere.
Look after them.
Look after their every step, but
don't let them leave you, ever.
NICK SCHIFRIN: But their
children have left this place.
And most will never return.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Nick
Schifrin in Karata, Dagestan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Our week-long
series Inside Putin's Russia
continues tomorrow with a look
at what happens to those who
dare to stand up to the Kremlin.
We return now to the top story
of the day, Donald Trump Jr.'s
release of e-mails showing
he met with a Russian lawyer
during the 2016 presidential
campaign, in hopes of gaining
damaging information
about Hillary Clinton.
For a closer look at the
political fallout from all this,
we turn to Karine Jean-Pierre,
a senior adviser to
MoveOn.org and a veteran of
the Obama administration.
And Matt Schlapp, he's
the chairman of the
American Conservative
Union and the former
deputy political director
for President George W. Bush.
And it's great to have you
both back on the program.
Thank you for being here.
So, Karine, to you first.
How damaging is all this
information about the
Donald Trump Jr. meeting?
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE,
Democratic Strategist: I
think it's pretty damaging.
We finally have evidence,
e-mails, that were not
fake news, because it
was actually delivered,
released by Don Jr., that shows
that a foreign - - he met --
he and Paul Manafort and Jared
Kushner met with a foreign
agent in the sole, sole purpose
of trying to get information
given by a foreign
adversary, intelligence
from a foreign adversary.
And I think that's
pretty damaging.
I think, for a long time,
Republicans have been
moving that goalpost, right?
They have been saying,
oh, there's no meeting.
Oh, well, if there's no meeting,
there's no proof of collusion.
Nobody on the campaign
knows any -- or have
any Russian connections.
Well, now we're at a point
where, yes, there's a meeting.
It looks like there potentially
could have been collusion.
And now what?
Now what do Republicans do?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Matt, how do
you see the damage, or not?
MATT SCHLAPP, Former White House
Director of Political Affairs:
Well, you know, my -- what
I have said continually is,
is that my guess is, in the
presidential campaign, they will
have e-mails or phone
conversations or meetings
with people that were
trying to be helpful
to the campaign.
So, this doesn't come
as a big shock to me.
I think the big mistake
they have made is whenever
you're involved in one
of these investigations
- - and I was in a White
House that had a special
counsel -- you search
your e-mails immediately.
You go through -- if you
have phone logs, and you look
through all your information,
and you just fully comply,
you're as completely
as transparent as
you possibly can be.
Actually, the reason we know
this is because Jared Kushner
and Paul Manafort updated the
disclosure to the government,
and they were much more
fulsome in the information they
gave, which was the
right thing to do.
It just would have been
better if that could have
done as soon as possible.
It's the drip, drip, drip that
gives the press the ability to
write another story and another
story.
But the underlying facts still
prove absolutely no criminality.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Absolutely
no criminality?
We had a discussion
about this a few minutes
ago with two lawyers.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Yes.
Well, we don't
know that for sure.
I mean, look, to me, it looks
like textbook collusion.
It looks like campaign finance
violation, at least for me,
someone who worked on campaigns
and, just like yourself,
worked in the White House.
(CROSSTALK)
MATT SCHLAPP: Yes, but you guys
were never under investigation.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Right.
We were never under
investigation.
Thanks goodness, Obama,
no investigation.
MATT SCHLAPP: Because
we were pretty nice.
We were pretty nice.
(LAUGHTER)
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: But, look --
but I think this is the problem.
If they want true transparency
-- this is they, the Trump
administration -- why don't
just they put it all out there?
(CROSSTALK)
MATT SCHLAPP: That's why
Donald Trump Jr. did this,
because it's the right thing to
do.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Yes, but
the only reason they do it is
because you have The Washington
Post out there and The New
York Times doing the work and
putting out the information in
piecemeal.
Then the drip, drip,
drip stuff happens.
MATT SCHLAPP: Or maybe they're
being leaked inside the White
House or inside the apparatus.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Well, then
that's Donald Trump's problem.
MATT SCHLAPP: Can I go,
Judy, to this question
of an FEC violation?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yes.
MATT SCHLAPP: Because
I saw the conversation
in the show as well.
And the FEC has put
on their Web site...
JUDY WOODRUFF: This is the
Federal Elections Commission.
MATT SCHLAPP: Right.
You can go on their Web
site and check it out.
But they already said
that the idea that you
could prove criminality
unless there was cash
that went directly to
a candidate is almost
impossible to prove.
So I think the FEC
violations here are absurd.
The idea that this is treason,
that this was taking up arms
against your own country, I
think, is absurd.
Then you have this question
of collusion, which isn't
really a legal term.
And then I love this, potential
collusion, and I don't even
know where you go on that.
Look, the bottom line
is, we want to know this.
Did anybody on team Trump
do anything illegal with
the Putin government
that somehow subverted
the elections?
That's a pretty big
charge, but an easy charge
to eventually answer.
And I think we all just
want to get that answer and
close the books on this.
The American people are
fair, and let's move on.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is the standard
of legality, Karine, going
to be the only standard that
matters here?
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: So, I
think that matters as well.
But we do have -- we cannot
forget that Russians actually
attacked our country.
They tried to undermine
our democracy.
And that is actually
still happening.
There was a Washington
Post recent reporting
that showed that Russians
were currently trying
to hack into our infrastructure.
And so this is what I'm not
understanding why Republicans
aren't just standing up and
saying something and keeping
Trump administration and
his associates accountable.
MATT SCHLAPP: I agree with this.
I think what Russia has tried
to do in this most recent
election and previous elections
is wrong.
I think it's wrong what the DNC
was doing with the government
of Ukraine to try to help
Hillary Clinton.
I think these things
really should be...
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE:
Not the same.
MATT SCHLAPP: Well, but
it is -- if you shouldn't
deal with a foreign
national, then you shouldn't
deal with a foreign national.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Russia
is a foreign adversary.
It's not the same.
The DNC denied it.
But Russia is not --
is a foreign adversary.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I want to come
to something, because there...
MATT SCHLAPP: Sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What has
struck me, Matt Schlapp,
is the comments from
conservative commentators
in the last day or so
about what's happening,
Charles Krauthammer,
who said last night:
I have been defending
this White House, this
administration for months.
Now I find out what they
were doing, and I'm left
basically hanging out to dry.
Are you seeing some Republicans,
some conservatives feeling as if
the administration hasn't been
straight with them?
MATT SCHLAPP: Of course.
What you're seeing from
Republicans and conservatives,
when you see the drip,
drip, drip, and with
this revelation that there
was a meeting, it does
get people concerned.
They say, well, I didn't think
there was going to be a meeting.
I thought I would have
learned this by now.
That's why getting all
the information out
is awfully important.
Get it all out.
My advice is to anybody
listening on the Trump
team, get the e-mails
out, get the calendar
items out.
Get everything out.
If you have nothing to hide,
just put it all out there.
I think that's what now they
have done with the refiling
of their disclosures, which is
why we know about this meeting.
So, it was their disclosure
that is the reason we know this.
Donald Jr., yes, he put out
his e-mails, but it was also
true that the media had gotten
them.
So, having full disclosure
will calm people down, because
all really conservatives care
about at the end, Judy,
is, was there wrongdoing?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Karine, we are
seeing, in poll after poll --
I haven't seen polls since this
latest information came
out -- but the conservative
- - Donald Trump's voting
base, they are sticking
with him.
They're saying, we don't care
about Russia, for the most part.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I'm making a bit
of a blanket statement here.
But they're saying, what we
want to see is, we want to see
something done about health
care, we want to see jobs.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: I
think that's exactly right.
But here's the thing.
Voters didn't care about
Watergate, until they did.
And the issue that I have with
that is, these elected officials
on the Hill have a duty,
they have a responsibility,
regardless if
voters care or not.
They took an oath to
protect the Constitution,
to defend the Constitution
against all enemies,
foreign or domestic.
And so, therefore, they
should care that there was
an attack on our country.
So, I think that is what is
really kind of getting under
my skin, is, this is truly,
truly important.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you
do have the committees
doing the investigation.
MATT SCHLAPP: Yes, the only
thing I would say to that
is, is that what Russia tries
to do with our cyber-security
in our society on a daily basis
with espionage is a big problem.
I agree with you on that.
I actually the Obama
administration -- he was
in charge during this
period of time -- he
actually left us vulnerable.
He left our potentially -- if
you're making the charge that
they had something to do with
our election system, he
was the sheriff in town.
The DNC was hacked.
I think that what we need to
do is make sure that we work in
a bipartisan way to make sure
that they can't affect
our society this way.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: But
Republicans are making
this a partisan issue.
They're not being bipartisan.
MATT SCHLAPP: I think there is a
little bit of that to go around.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Mitch
McConnell hasn't stood up basic
rhetoric, not real conversation
about it, and Paul Ryan.
They need to stand
up and speak louder.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right.
We may have another chance
to talk about this again.
It may not be the last chance.
(CROSSTALK)
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Sorry, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF:
Karine Jean-Pierre.
It's all right.
Matt Schlapp.
Thank you both for being here.
MATT SCHLAPP: I'm
hopeful for a new topic.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: I bet you are.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE:
Thanks, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you.
So, take a moment now to
check that label inside the
collar of your cotton shirt.
Chances are, it doesn't say
made in the USA, even though
the cotton it's made from was
probably grown in the USA.
Cotton farmers in North Carolina
are trying to change that,
teaming up with local textile
mills to produce garments
that are truly homegrown.
Now around a dozen companies
are selling clothing
that can be traced back
to local cotton fields.
From PBS station WTVI in
Charlotte, Jeff Sonier
shows us how Carolina
textile towns are bouncing
back after years of
mills closing down
and jobs moving out.
JEFF SONIER: Inside this North
Carolina textile factory, it's
the sound of survival, or maybe
revival.
ERIC HENRY, Textile Factory
Owner: When NAFTA hit, they
basically said textiles in this
country are dead.
You either go overseas,
or you go out of business.
JEFF SONIER: That was the hard
choice facing textile factory
owner Eric Henry, the same
hard choice that killed these
other Carolina textile mills,
along with the textile jobs
they provided for generations.
NARRATOR: Time was when cotton
was king of the coastal plain.
ERIC HENRY: There would be over
100 people working in here.
Our customers were Tommy,
Nike, Gap, Polo, Adidas,
high-level branded companies.
Within two years, we laid
off 80 percent of our staff.
The brands could not get
overseas quick enough.
And that's when I realized
there's more to business
than a bottom line.
That's when we realized
we wanted to be a
different business.
JEFF SONIER: And for Henry's
business, being different
means not just made in the USA,
but what he calls dirt-to-shirt,
products sewn here in the
Carolinas from cotton that's
grown here in the Carolinas.
Yes, you know, with all the
struggles that Carolina cotton
mills have been through over
the past couple of years, you
would figure Carolina cotton
farmers would be struggling,
too.
But, actually, it's
just the opposite.
In fact, the farmers
say, just like this field
we're standing in right
now, that their business
is actually growing.
BUTCH BROOKS, Cotton Farmer:
Well, I think it's great.
Just we're blessed to be able
to grow a crop like this.
JEFF SONIER: Butch Brooks grows
his cotton on a 100-year-old
family farm, picking it
from behind the wheel of a
half-million-dollar harvester.
Cotton experts say the crop
itself is high-quality, which
translates into high demand.
MAN: This is the cotton
that textile companies
want, absolutely.
Textiles want this quality
cotton for expensive garments,
for high-quality clothing.
JEFF SONIER: Problem is, after
it's cleaned and baled and
bar coded for sale, most of
this local cotton winds
up in the same place those
local jobs went, overseas.
WES MORGAN, Business Owner: This
area of North Carolina was the
center of cotton in the world
at one time.
People wanted to be able to go
to the store and buy a shirt
made in the United States.
Well, right now, there's
almost none of that.
Could we get that again?
Could we have something
completely made
in the Carolinas?
ERIC HENRY: We just believe
there's more to a T-shirt than
just the cost of a T-shirt,
where it's made, how it's
made, the impact it has on the
people, the impact it has on
the planet.
We grow cotton here.
We can make apparel here.
JEFF SONIER: In fact,
the homegrown, home-sewn
shirts here at Henry's
factory even have special
color-coded threads in
the hem and the sleeves,
so you can track back
your shirt to the very
beginning.
ERIC HENRY: If you take
those two colors, and go
to a Web site, Where --
W-H-E-R-E -- yourclothing.com,
you put in these two colors,
a map pops up, and from that
map, I will introduce you to
the farmer, the ginner,
the spinner, the knitter,
the finisher, the
cut-sew, and T.S. designs.
We make our supply chain
completely transparent all
the way back to the farmer.
JEFF SONIER: Henry admits his
dirt-to-shirt concept isn't
all that different from those
popular farm-to-fork
restaurants, and
that's no coincidence.
ERIC HENRY: Offering people
alternatives if they're looking
for something how they can
support their community and
have a better product, and
know where it comes from.
We have had great cotton in
this state for a long time.
And all we're doing is
reconnecting that cotton to jobs
and textiles back in our state.
JEFF SONIER: With a goal of
not putting the cheap overseas
shirt-makers out of business,
but maybe growing and
sewing a whole new business.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Jeff Sonier in Stanly
County, North Carolina.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And
what a promising story.
On the "NewsHour" online
right now: NASA's Juno
spacecraft recently got its
first up-close-and-personal
view with Jupiter's Great
Red Spot, and today the space
agency has released photos from
the flyby.
The images reveal many
tantalizing details about what's
happening in Jupiter's giant
storm.
You can take a closer look at
these gorgeous pictures on our
Web site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And don't forget, tomorrow
and Friday, correspondent
Nick Schifrin continues
his in-depth series,
a look inside Vladimir
Putin's Russia.
NARRATOR: In Russia today,
resurgent nationalism.
MAN: And authoritarianism
is organic.
It's not artificial.
NARRATOR: Built by
and around one man.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Russians told
pollsters that suddenly they
felt like a superpower again.
NARRATOR: But for
Putin's opponents:
WOMAN: People who have tried
to leave the Putin family
voluntarily have not fared very
well.
NARRATOR: A rare look inside
Putin's Russia all next
week on the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thursday
and Friday nights.
And that's the
"NewsHour" for tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again
right here tomorrow evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank you,
and we will see you soon.